---
layout:          post
title:           "002 - Reverse Phantom Pain"
date:            2020-12-02 12:00:00 -0400
categories:      [episode]
trailer:         false
tags:            [Episodes]
podcasts:        [WOE]
voiced:          [Mike Walters]
episode_title:   "Reverse Phantom Pain"
episode_number:  '002'
summary:         "'I think you'll figure out what happens in this episode pretty fast. I say it over and over.'"
content_flags:   [blood, description (not depiction) of bodily gore]
PodBean_url:     
formats: 
  PDF: https://woebegonepod.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/wbg2.pdf
  PDF (Large-Print): 
official:        true
wiki_url:        https://woebegone.fandom.com/wiki/2:_Reverse_Phantom_Pain
notes:           "Edited by [james-spooky]"
---

#### MIKE (INTRO)

Wooooow. Wow wow wow. Your brain will turn anything into a morsel of nostalgia, won’t it? I did a whole episode about the first round of WOE.BEGONE and made it sound like it had a happy ending. And it felt that way, too, when I was telling the story. That’s the magical power that the brain is capable of. It can completely rewrite the past. That wasn’t a happy ending. It wasn’t an ending at all. The peace of my dead friend coming back to life like nothing had happened was the eye of a storm… with a thousand eyes. It should have been obvious that it was all peaks and valleys as long as I was playing WOE.BEGONE. 

I was wrong in my first episode. This whole thing is blackmail, right? By the time I saw the results I was pretty certain that the prize goes away if I stop playing the game. And that first prize was only to get me hooked into playing the rest of the games. The “prizes” stop being prizes, spoiler alert. If you listened to the first episode of WOE.BEGONE and thought that this was going to be a story full of catharsis and dramatic but ultimately wholesome venues for me to discover my self-worth, you’re dead wrong. 

But after the first game, I wondered how anyone could ever drop out of WOE.BEGONE. We’re dealing with magic, or a technology fundamental indistinguishable from magic. How could you not look at that and not becoming obsessed with figuring out the extent of these powers and how to harness this technology for yourself. Or for the good of the world, if you’re a better person than me. How could you not stand in awe at the power of this thing and decide it’s not worth it to learn more?

_[laughs]_ Well, I get it now. I really get it and the second challenge was my first taste of wanting to walk away. Don’t get me wrong, I’m not out of the game, but I get it now. This is WOE.BEGONE. 

##### [THEME PLAYS]

#### MIKE

So, my old best friend is back in my life-- and back to life in general. The reality-shift I had just set into motion hit me in waves. My brain did not accept these new conditions. I would catch myself feeling certain that my friend, let’s call him “Matt” for brevity’s sake, was really alive again. I wanted to know everything about him. What had happened in the last two years with him, who he was now, what he was doing and thinking about. How he was living. The phone conversation that confirmed his renewed existence was a huge blur. I was too emotional to really hear the substance of his words. I wanted to know everything, do everything, speak to him in person, see him, feel him. I thought about flying out to Vancouver but thought better of it due to the pandemic. 

